what's happening everybody I'm Bretton
Alfred welcome to 100 days of SEO today
we are talking about site architecture
for SEO let's get into it
[Music]
alright so here real quick we're gonna
hop into my computer it's literally
right over on the other side okay we're
gonna hop in my computer I'm gonna lay
out exactly how to do a proper site
architecture for just a very standard
WordPress marketing website this will
work for other platforms that work for
Wix but if you're using Wix for any sort
of SEO stuff don't don't
same thing with Squarespace this all of
these things translate across I prefer
website or a websites I prefer WordPress
but I'm gonna go through site
architecture and how to use your site
architecture to actually enhance your
SEO all right so we are here in my
computer let's get into this making a
not stupid website for SEO aka site
architecture now I've got something
special for you if you watched until the
end of this video I'm gonna make a
pretty special offer to help you for
free with your website my audits started
$1000 I want to help you completely for
free if you're new here my name is
Brendan huffard I'm the founder of SEO
for the rest of us 100 days of SEO also
the SEO director at an amazing web
design and marketing agency called click
studios and I'm a former teacher and
pretty all-around regular guy maybe some
dad jokes in this video you're gonna
learn zero coding zero techy kind of
tasks but you are going to learn how to
create some logic in your website so
that search engines and most importantly
so humans can figure out what's on your
website so why does architecture matter
for SEO there's three kind of primary
reasons number one is indexing and
Google can crawl your website well they
can index it more quickly and more
accurately and that leads to better
rankings right we all want to rank we
all want more traffic better site
architecture will absolutely help your
rankings I'm gonna explain how to do
that there's a point I'm gonna make
public the fourth or fifth point here in
this kind of video where I'm gonna walk
through exactly how that helps rankings
and some of the secret tools that I use
secret kind of assets I use to make that
happen
then obviously it's better for humans
people are going to be on your site
longer they're gonna find what they need
a lot more easier so what are we gonna
focus on with site architectures is a
lot easier than you think we're gonna
talk about content silos content
clusters internal linking that's
probably my favorite one
maybe duplicate content maybe not and
then also tags and categories so
according to web savvy marketing a
Content silos a method of grouping
related content together to establish a
website's keyword based topical areas or
themes now that's a mouthful but this is
called a Content silo because it
reflects a physical silo these are some
cool graphics from web risks a an
organizational style is how we organize
our websites content so instead of
having this jarl kind of mess up jar of
different marbles a jar bowl Vasili we
organize all of them and then we silo
them together so it all starts to make
sense here's kind of what that looks
like here's an example again from web
savvy marketing having their yoga
studios be siloed under the yoga studios
having the instructors instead of just
having them all live on the blog with
random posts we're starting to silo
these together and structure them
together I'm gonna explain kind of how
to do that as well but putting these
together in a way that makes sense
whether through the navigation or
through the our linking structure or
even through categories and tags we
start to show Google and also show
humans what goes where and what things
are now the next thing that content
cluster is a little bit different this
is again a huge long very definitive
definition from HubSpot but I just want
to show you what these look like with
some graphics from from the future so
before topic clusters this is what most
websites look like they have content
about marketing content about their
agency content about sales etc it all
lives on the blog and they all just kind
of exist on there they're all just
floating but when you start to build out
topic clusters you have the subtopics
all linked possibly together to each
other
but also into the core topic the core
kind of ultimate posts lives in the
middle and what I've found across all my
clients and all my own personal SEO work
is that the subtopics not only optimize
for longtail keywords but also for
deeper levels of awareness this starts
to talk and get into search intent and
really more ranking factors but this is
extremely helpful and what I found is
that as one of them starts to rank they
all start to rank better as well and
here's
that looks like across the board so we
build out these different clusters for
different subject areas maybe one of
them is focus on SEO another one is
focused on sales and other one is
focused on UX whatever if you have
multiple topics on your website you talk
about organizing them into smart
clusters is really really smart now also
with content depth what we mean by this
is how far away from the homepage is at
how hard is it for a Google bot or a
human to find this content the farther
away you put it from the homepage the
more difficult it is is a great graph by
built visible to just a show if it takes
me four or five clicks to find something
number one Google's not gonna crawl it
anymore but number two it's really hard
for a human to find nobody's going to
get to that page and that will
absolutely hurt rankings the next thing
we're gonna talk about is internal
linking now this is some of the most
underused and underrated asset on any
website if you want to improve your
rankings you want to look at internal
links we all think about backlinks from
other websites but look at links from
your own website so for example here's
an article that I'm starting to build
out and starting to make a lot stronger
before it was just a documentary about
me building my jiu jitsu ecommerce brand
and now I'm really starting to make it
less of that and more just I want it to
be something that should rank so it's
already ranking for a couple keywords
but some of the quick ones would be
giving it better internal links on my
own website you can see right now it has
a bunch already with 46 different places
on my website that this is getting links
from that's great I've already linked
the crap out of it on my own website but
if I wanted to add more what should I do
so I'm using H refs here I'm looking for
my best pages by links so these are
other strong pages on the website that I
could pass some of that equity to it's
already the brain building guide already
has a home page link so I'm good there
but I could also link to it from my
podcast page or my dream 100 article or
my about page things like that I also
made sure these weren't including 300
ones or images or anything else like
that but this shows me if you go into
hrs and you go to your best buy links
down on the bottom left you can see it's
orange on here that'll give you a good
idea of where to link to from your
website to really boost it up boost up
its rankings show Google this is more of
a
rotate of page and pass some of that
equity and authority from the external
links that you have coming in here's
another example I did for flywheel it's
a great article by flywheel all about
managed wordpress hosting it's a
wonderful guide right now they only have
two links coming in from other websites
and they only have two internal links
you know the premise here was that this
would be a big win for them to get more
internal links obviously external links
matter but internal matters as well so I
wanted to compare them to Kin stuff this
is kin Stu's guide to managed WordPress
hosting and Kintz is doing a lot of
great stuff first of all they have 59
other websites linking to them and you
can see this is evident in the referring
domains organic traffic and organic
keywords but they also have at least 36
internal links they've really built out
their internal linking structure to this
content and that shows Google what an
authority it is finally we're gonna take
a look at tags and categories so similar
to everything else here categories gonna
help the robots but also humans navigate
between your content and see how it's
related this might be a weird opinion
please feel free to disagree with me in
the comments below
tags on especially on WordPress websites
from everything I've seen our total
waste of time unless you're trying to
rank a tag page similar you're using
tags as being synonymous with categories
I find categories work a lot better so
here's what we talked about content
silos content clusters internal linking
honestly duplicate content isn't that
big of an issue unless you have an
e-commerce website and you have like
thousands of products and you're not
using Shopify or something that makes
setting up canonical is really easy so I
don't worry too much about duplicate
content but then also tags and
categories making sure that we have
those set up properly as well now if you
want to learn all of this stuff and you
want to create content that's actually
gonna rank I highly recommend you check
out the one ranking away challenge a lot
of people have gone through it about 400
people already at the point of
publishing this video have gone through
it and getting a lot of really
incredible feedback from people which is
great because it's really unprompted and
I'm really happy that so many people are
having success with it if you want to
learn that simply go to 100 days of SEO
com it's a free 30 day email course
everything I know about SEO is in there
in a way again leveraging my teaching
expertise in a way that makes sense and
will help you learn and builds on it day
by day also if you want to check out
flywheel that's where I host all my most
important work
websites go to 100 days of seo.com slash
flywheel finally check out pod Reacher
as well pod Reacher comm they're the
ones if you got 100 days of SEO and calm
and you look at the blog you'll see
they've been my partner in creating all
of that really excellent blog content
now you've waited for this hopefully
after this video you you feel like neo
you're like I know kung-fu but if you
want a little bit more help in the
comments below
paste your URL and I'll give you some
feedback on your site architecture I
will give you direct feedback on this
like I said mic audits start at
thousands of dollars and my my
consulting hourly rate is not cheap but
I want to do it for free because I
believe when we all do better we all do
better and if you're watching this video
and you want help with your website
paste your URL in the comments below and
I'll give you some feedback I've been
Brendon Hufford don't forget to work
hard be nice to people and don't get too
lost trying to create something that
matters
[Music]